---
layout: post
title: In Defense of Alchemy
---


I have a lot of sympathy for the Alchemists. They thought they had tapped into the elemental forces of the universe. They toiled away in garages. They feverishly adopted new frameworks and methodologies. They read books like Lean Transmutation and The Alchemist’s Dilemma. They spent their lives uncovering the method to transform any old idea into gold. They produced nothing of value.

On the plus side, we got chemistry and the scientific process from all their effort. Well no, actually we got that from the guy who called them on their bullshit.

That guy was Robert Boyle. He didn't care about the product, he only cared about the process.  He "assumed nothing in his experiments" and documented everything.

Boyle sounds like a project manager. And people preferred that because at least people knew what he was doing. The problem with alchemists is that they were so secretive, no one knew if any real progress was being made.

By the 1720’s, Boyle’s way started to win out. Twenty years later, chemistry was the rage and alchemy “was now restricted to the realm of gold making, leading to the popular belief that alchemists were charlatans, and the tradition itself nothing more than a fraud.” (from Wikipedia)

Silicon Valley has strong ties to charlatanism. There’s even a new book illuminating the connection called Disrupted, by one of the writers of Silicon Valley. And while there is certainly some truth to the charges, when I think of the old alchemists, I think of tragic eggheads who lacked infrastructure.
